docs/resources/races/goliaths.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Goliaths

One of the last races created by the gods before the Great Dragon War, the goliaths were outlanders who resided in the Snowy Mountains. Molded by Eldath from those who worshiped the ukanlos that resided deep in the mountain range, the goliaths are a race wrapped in tradition. Their society's key focus was competitiveness and held equality and fairness in high regard. They kept track of their accomplishments and saw everything as a challenge. Many outside of the race that didn't understand this tradition would find it quite annoying when a goliath would bring up how many times a certain thing would happen.

This was not the case however. To goliaths, score-keeping was a natural and integral part of life, not meant to belittle or demean anyone.

Ancient goliaths lived in small tribes in the Snowy Mountains, that numbered between forty and sixty. This was usually made up of three to five extended families. Most goliaths lived in the same tribe their entire life. On rare occasions, a tribe that got too large would split into smaller tribes or smaller tribes would merge together.

These tribes only went to war as a final option, and for much of the Great Dragon War they were successful in this endeavor. It wasn't until the death of their beloved ukanlos by the hands of the Dark Mother's cultists that they allied with the Aspects. The war was bloody for the goliaths, many of the families and tribes were wiped out. Those that survived returned to the Snowy Mountains beaten and bruised, but with a new found respect for their allies.

After the reemergence, the goliaths were an integral part of the Pokke Village's founding. The Snowy Mountains had always been their home, and their knowledge of the territory prevented many casualties in those initial years. Though most goliath tribes are nomadic, many of them chose to remain in Pokke Village as gladiators, soldiers, and hunters. In fact, after the founding of the Hunters Guild in Pokke Village, the goliaths were one of the first to join up. The guild to them, represented the tradition that was lost after ukanlos' death. They were able to compete not only with their fellow goliaths, but also all the other members of the guild. Rumors in the past have told of goliath hunters returning to the Snowy Mountain with large pure white eggs. Though they deny it, many believe the goliaths are searching for a ukanlos egg, in hopes of returning on to the mountains once again.

Commit message:

The start of new beginnings, changing everything to vague space theme.

docs/resources/races/goliaths.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Goliaths

One of the last known sentient species to emerge before the collapse of the old world, the goliaths are a people shaped by the snowbound extremes of the high mountain ranges. Their culture was born from reverence—not toward gods, but toward the colossal, ancient lifeforms that once roamed the glacial valleys. Goliaths are deeply traditional, valuing personal challenge, communal strength, and fairness above all else. They keep meticulous records of accomplishments, not to boast, but to track growth, resolve disputes, and honor the memory of those who came before. To outsiders unfamiliar with this custom, their constant score-keeping can seem irritating, but to a goliath, it is simply a way of life.

To goliaths, measuring one’s actions is not about dominance—it’s a practice of self-awareness and accountability. It is common for two goliaths to compare experiences over a fire, not to compete, but to reflect on effort and resilience. This ritual of recounting deeds and trials is integral to their social structure and identity, forming the basis for leadership, mentorship, and even marriage customs within their tribes.

Historically, goliaths lived in small, self-sustaining nomadic groups high in the frozen elevations. Tribes typically consisted of three to five extended families, rarely numbering more than sixty. Most members remained in the tribe for life unless split or mergers became necessary due to environmental strain or dwindling resources. They avoided large-scale conflicts unless pushed to the edge and favored solving disputes through contest or consensus rather than war.

In the old world’s final era, many goliaths suffered catastrophic losses tied to the extinction of the great megafauna they had revered and protected. These events shattered their cohesion and led them to seek new ways to preserve their traditions. Some turned outward, forging uneasy alliances with other peoples. Though the blood price was high, the experience broadened their view of the world, and the bonds they formed with others helped shape their next chapter.

When society began to rebuild, the goliaths became critical to the survival of early mountain settlements. Their knowledge of the highland terrain and their harsh lifestyle enabled them to guide others safely through the dangers of the icebound frontier. While many tribes remain nomadic, others have integrated into fixed settlements as security forces, heavy laborers, or wilderness guides. The founding of the hunters’ guilds and competitive trade networks appealed to their cultural ideals—offering a new arena for personal challenge and recognition. Rumors persist of goliath expeditions deep into the frozen peaks, seeking evidence of surviving ancient beasts—some say as a spiritual quest, others believe as a way to restore a long-lost guardian of their people.
