docs/resources/races/race-introduction.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# The Races of Monster Hunter

:::tip 
This page contains the flavor text provided by the [Guide to Monster Hunting](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-LCk9FgQaqaXBVmLeCeT), subsequent pages contain the flavor text provided by the guide as well as any game stats for each race. If the page just has flavor text, game stats for the race can be found in the [Player's Handbook](https://drive.google.com/open?id=10elvJ7bM_YyGaGt_xAIZFyr9aGkBPpEu&usp=drive_fs).
:::

Since the reemergence after the Great Dragon War a thousand years ago, the races of the world crawled back from extinction. Even with the slow advancements of technology, twelve of the races left their mark in the Old World. Working together with each other, under the guidance of the Platinum Court and Wild Lords, these races set out to become the society we have today. This section stands as a resource to help inspire you in deciding how your character’s racial background fits within the Monster
Hunter Universe.

Commit message:

The start of new beginnings, changing everything to vague space theme.

docs/resources/races/race-introduction.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# The Races of Monster Hunter

:::tip
This page contains updated flavor text for the races provided by the [Guide to Monster Hunting](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-LCk9FgQaqaXBVmLeCeT), subsequent pages contain updated flavor text as well as any game stats for each race. If the page just has flavor text, game stats for the race can be found in the [Player's Handbook](https://drive.google.com/open?id=10elvJ7bM_YyGaGt_xAIZFyr9aGkBPpEu&usp=drive_fs).
:::

In a galaxy stitched together by the rusting bones of forgotten empires, civilization endures in the shadow of machines no one remembers how to build and systems no one truly understands. Cities cling to life within crumbling arcologies, trade flows through derelict space lanes, and deep beneath the surface, remnants of lost eras pulse with unstable power. Knowledge is fragmented, myth and data often indistinguishable, and every discovery carries risk—of awakening, of corruption, of consequence. It is a time of slow collapse and quiet resilience, where survival is an act of defiance, and the future belongs to those bold enough to reclaim it.
