docs/resources/races/tritons.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 12
---

# Tritons

The tritons were the first humans to worship the Fives creation and as such were infused with the power of the sea. Due to this, many tritons come across as arrogant, but they are in fact benevolent creatures at heart, convinced that other civilized races deserve their protection. Their attitude might grate, but when pirate fleets prowl the waves or a ceadeus awakens from its slumber, they are among the first to take up arms to protect others.

During the War of the Ancients, the tritons suffered massive defeats and many were twisted by Fatalis’ offer of power, transforming them into sahuagins. It wasn't until Persana ascended to godhood that the tritons were finally able to push the sahuagins and other corrupt creatures back to the elemental plane of water.

In the aftermath of the war the tritons were tasked by Persana to be the caretakers of the sea. So they began building some small settlements beside deep trenches and even some in other dangerous spots far from the land.
 That isn't to say that all triton's live so far from the other races. Many of them call Moga Village and many of the port towns across the Old World home.

Many triton's that live among the other races work as dockhands, shipwrights, or merchants in the ports. While others may join the hunters guild or other research guilds, using their unique attributes to their advantage.

Commit message:

The start of new beginnings, changing everything to vague space theme.

docs/resources/races/tritons.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 12
---

# Tritons

Tritons are believed to be among the first humans to undergo a lasting transformation in response to the ocean’s call—altered not by machines, but by something deeper and older. Their physiology became attuned to the crushing depths and pressure zones of the sea, and over generations, they developed a natural command of aquatic environments. This legacy of transformation and duty has given many tritons an air of pride that is often mistaken for arrogance. In truth, most believe deeply in their responsibility to safeguard others, even if their sense of superiority can sometimes make that protection feel condescending.

Ancient records and oral traditions speak of a time when tritons suffered great losses—though the exact cause has been lost or suppressed. During this age of upheaval, a significant number of tritons were altered or corrupted, changing into aggressive aquatic species that remain hostile to this day. Some believe these twisted offshoots still lurk in the deepest rifts of the sea, waiting. Despite this painful legacy, the tritons endured, and over time they reclaimed their places in the ocean’s balance.

In the generations since, tritons have continued to serve as keepers of the deep. Many build their homes beside unstable oceanic trenches, underwater geothermal zones, or bio-reactive ecosystems that most land-dwellers consider uninhabitable. These settlements are sparse, self-sufficient, and often intentionally isolated—tasked with watching and, if necessary, containing what others would rather forget.

Not all tritons live in the depths, however. Many now reside in coastal stations, aquatic ports, or drifting ocean colonies. These tritons often work as submersible pilots, salvage divers, data couriers, or mechanics specializing in pressurized systems. Others become explorers or join research guilds, leveraging their biological adaptations and underwater knowledge to chart the unknown. Though they rarely abandon their sense of duty, tritons who walk among the surface races often learn humility—and in turn, teach others the hidden power of the sea
