docs/resources/weapons/heavy-bowgun.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 21
---

# Heavy Bowgun

*Martial Ranged Weapon*  
**Compatible Proficiency:** Heavy Crossbow

*The Heavy Bowgun is the artillery of ranged weapons. It specializes in high damage rounds at a range. While it does not have the same special effects of the Light Bowgun, the Heavy Bowgun dishes out damage more reliably.*

## All Rarities

**Ammo.** Your ammo is stored in an ammo pouch that weighs 10 lbs. The pouch can hold a certain amount of each type of ammo as shown in the Vendor table below. All ammo deal normal weapon damage unless otherwise specified. Some of your ammo require your target to make a saving throw to resist the ammo’s effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:

**Ammo save DC** = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier

**Loading.** As a bonus action you switch the ammo your bowgun is using with another. This replaces the standard 5e loading property.

## Nonmagical

*50 gp, 1d10 piercing, 18 lb., ammunition (range 100/400), heavy, loading, two-handed.*

**Ammo Available.**

- *Normal Ammo.* Deals normal weapon damage.
- *Tranq Ammo.* Acts as a tranq bomb with the bowgun's range and weapon proficiency.

## Uncommon

**Additional Coatings Available.**

- *Cluster Ammo.* This ammo deals no weapon damage, it instead explodes on a hit, dealing 2d6 fire damage to the target and each creature within 5 feet of it. This damage is increased by 1d6 for each rarity above Rare.
- *Pierce lvl 1.* You gain a +1 bonus to damage rolls.
- *Poison Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature can repeat its saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the poison on a success.
- *Recover lvl 1.* Instead of taking damage, a creature hit by this ammo regains 1d4 hit points.
- *Spread Ammo.* When you hit a creature with this ammo and it is within half your normal bowgun range, the damage dealt to the target is split evenly between it and each creature adjacent to it.

## Rare

*You gain a +1 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You double the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Paralysis Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated and have its movement speed reduced to 0 until the end of your next turn. If the creature fails the save by 5 or more, it is paralyzed instead until the end of your next turn.
- *Pierce lvl 2.* You gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls.
- *Slicing Ammo.* Instead of making a ranged weapon attack, choose a target within your bowgun's maximum range. That target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw against your ammo save DC, taking 4d6 slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. If the target is beyond your normal bowgun range, it has advantage on its save. This damage is increased by 1d6 for each rarity above Rare.
- *Sticky Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Strength saving throw or be restrained for 1 minute, the creature can use their action to attempt to break free (Escape DC equal to your Ammo save DC).
- *Wyvern Ammo.* You do not make an attack with this ammo, instead each creature in a 15-foot cone in front of you must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d12 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. This damage is increased by 1d12 for each rarity above Rare.

## Very Rare

*You gain a +1 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You triple the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Pierce lvl 3.* You gain a +3 bonus to damage rolls.
- *Recover lvl 2.* Instead of taking damage, a creature hit by this ammo regains 1d6 hit points.

## Legendary

*You gain a +2 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You quadruple the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

## Ammo Vendor

An ammo vendor may be located in a general store, near a blacksmith, or perhaps they have their own shop. A store may have a large supply of ammunition, which will be up to your GM. Below you will find each type of ammo, the amount you can carry, how much they cost.

| Type                | Cost  | Capacity |
| :------------------ | ----: | -------: |
| *Cluster Ammo. (1)*   | 5 gp  | 2        |
| *Normal Ammo. (20)*   | 1 gp  | 100      |
| *Paralysis Ammo. (1)* | 4 gp  | 1        |
| *Pierce lvl 1. (10*)  | 1 gp  | 10       |
| *Pierce lvl 2. (10*)  | 2 gp  | 10       |
| *Pierce lvl 3. (10*)  | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Poison Ammo. (1)*    | 4 gp  | 3        |
| *Recover lvl 1. (1*)  | 5 gp  | 1        |
| *Recover lvl 2. (1*)  | 7 gp  | 1        |
| *Slicing Ammo. (1)*   | 5 gp  | 1        |
| *Spread Ammo. (20)*   | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Sticky Ammo. (1)*    | 1 gp  | 2        |
| *Tranq Ammo. (1)*     | 50 gp | 20       |
| *Wyvern Ammo. (1)*    | 10 gp | 1        |

### Variant: Crafting Ammunition

You can craft ammunition to produce for your Bowgun. At the end of each long rest, you can create 20 rounds of ammunition. After each short rest, you can produce 5 rounds. It takes 3 rounds of ammunition when you craft any single round of ammunition that has a maximum capacity below 20.

Commit message:

Normal ammo amount now unlimited

docs/resources/weapons/heavy-bowgun.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 21
---

# Heavy Bowgun

*Martial Ranged Weapon*  
**Compatible Proficiency:** Heavy Crossbow

*The Heavy Bowgun is the artillery of ranged weapons. It specializes in high damage rounds at a range. While it does not have the same special effects of the Light Bowgun, the Heavy Bowgun dishes out damage more reliably.*

## All Rarities

**Ammo.** Your ammo is stored in an ammo pouch that weighs 10 lbs. The pouch can hold a certain amount of each type of ammo as shown in the Vendor table below. All ammo deal normal weapon damage unless otherwise specified. Some of your ammo require your target to make a saving throw to resist the ammo’s effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:

**Ammo save DC** = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier

**Loading.** As a bonus action you switch the ammo your bowgun is using with another. This replaces the standard 5e loading property.

## Nonmagical

*50 gp, 1d10 piercing, 18 lb., ammunition (range 100/400), heavy, loading, two-handed.*

**Ammo Available.**

- *Normal Ammo.* Deals normal weapon damage.
- *Tranq Ammo.* Acts as a tranq bomb with the bowgun's range and weapon proficiency.

## Uncommon

**Additional Coatings Available.**

- *Cluster Ammo.* This ammo deals no weapon damage, it instead explodes on a hit, dealing 2d6 fire damage to the target and each creature within 5 feet of it. This damage is increased by 1d6 for each rarity above Rare.
- *Pierce lvl 1.* You gain a +1 bonus to damage rolls.
- *Poison Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned creature can repeat its saving throw at the end of its turn, ending the poison on a success.
- *Recover lvl 1.* Instead of taking damage, a creature hit by this ammo regains 1d4 hit points.
- *Spread Ammo.* When you hit a creature with this ammo and it is within half your normal bowgun range, the damage dealt to the target is split evenly between it and each creature adjacent to it.

## Rare

*You gain a +1 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You double the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Paralysis Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated and have its movement speed reduced to 0 until the end of your next turn. If the creature fails the save by 5 or more, it is paralyzed instead until the end of your next turn.
- *Pierce lvl 2.* You gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls.
- *Slicing Ammo.* Instead of making a ranged weapon attack, choose a target within your bowgun's maximum range. That target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw against your ammo save DC, taking 4d6 slashing damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. If the target is beyond your normal bowgun range, it has advantage on its save. This damage is increased by 1d6 for each rarity above Rare.
- *Sticky Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Strength saving throw or be restrained for 1 minute, the creature can use their action to attempt to break free (Escape DC equal to your Ammo save DC).
- *Wyvern Ammo.* You do not make an attack with this ammo, instead each creature in a 15-foot cone in front of you must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d12 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. This damage is increased by 1d12 for each rarity above Rare.

## Very Rare

*You gain a +1 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You triple the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Pierce lvl 3.* You gain a +3 bonus to damage rolls.
- *Recover lvl 2.* Instead of taking damage, a creature hit by this ammo regains 1d6 hit points.

## Legendary

*You gain a +2 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You quadruple the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

## Ammo Vendor

An ammo vendor may be located in a general store, near a blacksmith, or perhaps they have their own shop. A store may have a large supply of ammunition, which will be up to your GM. Below you will find each type of ammo, the amount you can carry, how much they cost.

| Type                | Cost  | Capacity |
| :------------------ | ----: | -------: |
| *Cluster Ammo. (1)*   | 5 gp  | 2        |
| *Normal Ammo. (20)*   | 1 gp  | Unlimited* |
| *Paralysis Ammo. (1)* | 4 gp  | 1        |
| *Pierce lvl 1. (10*)  | 1 gp  | 10       |
| *Pierce lvl 2. (10*)  | 2 gp  | 10       |
| *Pierce lvl 3. (10*)  | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Poison Ammo. (1)*    | 4 gp  | 3        |
| *Recover lvl 1. (1*)  | 5 gp  | 1        |
| *Recover lvl 2. (1*)  | 7 gp  | 1        |
| *Slicing Ammo. (1)*   | 5 gp  | 1        |
| *Spread Ammo. (20)*   | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Sticky Ammo. (1)*    | 1 gp  | 2        |
| *Tranq Ammo. (1)*     | 50 gp | 20       |
| *Wyvern Ammo. (1)*    | 10 gp | 1        |

\*Up to the GM on how much you can hold.

### Variant: Crafting Ammunition

You can craft ammunition to produce for your Bowgun. At the end of each long rest, you can create 20 rounds of ammunition. After each short rest, you can produce 5 rounds. It takes 3 rounds of ammunition when you craft any single round of ammunition that has a maximum capacity below 20.
