docs/resources/weapons/light-bowgun.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 22
---

# Light Bowgun

*Simple Ranged Weapon*  
**Compatible Proficiency:** Light Crossbow

*The Light Bowgun is the smallest ranged weapon. It boasts the highest fire rate of the ranged weapons. It also specializes in supporting ammo, such as poison, paralysis and recovery, meaning it can reliably inflict a variety of status effects on the monster while still dealing damage.*

## All Rarities

**Rapid Fire.** Whenever you make an attack as part of the Attack action with the light bowgun, you make two attacks instead of one (*defaulting to normal ammo if you run out of any other type when attacking*).

**Overheat.** When you hit a creature with this weapon, the next attack you make with it only deals a maximum of 1d4 damage, in addition to any other effects from the ammo used for the attack. *This attack does not gain any extra damage from any other source, including ability score modifiers, bonus elemental damage, the sharpshooter feat, hunter's mark and spells like it, other spell effects, etc.* After making this attack, this property resets.

### Examples of Four Attacks per Turn

- **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)* | **Hit** *(1d4)* | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)* | **Hit** *(1d4)*
- **Miss** (0) | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)* | **Hit** *(1d4)* | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)*
- **Miss** (0) | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)* | **Miss** (0) | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)*

**Ammo.** Your ammo is stored in an ammo pouch that weighs 10 lbs. The pouch can hold a certain amount of each type of ammo as shown in the Vendor table below. All ammo deal normal weapon damage unless otherwise specified. Some of your ammo require your target to make a saving throw to resist the ammo’s effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:

**Ammo save DC** = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier

**Loading.** As a bonus action you switch the ammo your bowgun is using with another. *This replaces the standard 5e loading property.*

## Nonmagical

*24 gp, 1d4 piercing, 5 lb., ammunition (range 80/320), loading, two-handed, special.*

- *Normal Ammo.* Deals normal weapon damage.
- *Tranq Ammo.* Acts as a *tranq bomb* with the bowgun's range and weapon proficiency.

## Uncommon

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Flaming Ammo.* Your attacks deal fire damage.
- *Pierce Ammo.* You gain a +1 bonus to damage rolls.
- *Poison Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
- *Recover lvl 1.* Instead of taking damage, a creature hit by this ammo regains 1d4 hit points.
- *Spread Ammo.* When you hit a creature with this ammo and it is within half your normal bowgun range, the damage dealt to the target is split evenly between it and each creature adjacent to it.
- *Thunder Ammo.* Your attacks deal thunder damage.
- *Water Ammo.* Your attacks deal acid damage.

## Rare

*You gain a +1 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You double the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Armor Ammo.* This ammo deals no damage, instead when you hit a creature with this ammo, that creature gains a +2 bonus to its AC for 1 minute. Hitting a creature with armor ammo again refreshes the duration.
- *Demon Ammo.* This ammo deals no damage, instead when you hit a creature with this ammo, that creature gains a +2 bonus to damage rolls for 1 minute. Hitting a creature with demon ammo again refreshes the duration.
- *Dragon Ammo.* Your attacks deal necrotic damage.
- *Paralysis Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated and have its movement speed reduced to 0 until the end of your next turn. If the creature fails the save by 5 or more, it is paralyzed instead until the end of your next turn.
- *Sleep Ammo.* This ammo deals no damage, if the target is below 50 hit points it falls unconscious for 1 minute, until it takes damage, or until someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake.
- *Sticky Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Strength saving throw or be restrained for 1 minute, the creature can use their action to attempt to break free (Escape DC equal to your Ammo save DC).

## Very Rare

*You gain a +2 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You triple the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Recover lvl 2.* Instead of taking damage, a creature hit by this ammo regains 1d6 hit points.

## Legendary

*You gain a +3 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You quadruple the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

## Ammo Vendor

An ammo vendor may be located in a general store, near a blacksmith, or perhaps they have their own shop. A store may have a large supply of ammunition, which will be up to your GM. Below you will find each type of ammo, the amount you can carry, how much they cost.

| Type                   | Cost  | Capacity |
| :------------------    | ----: | -------: |
| *Armor Ammo. (1)*      | 8 gp  | 1        |
| *Demon Ammo. (1)*      | 8 gp  | 1        |
| *Dragon Ammo. (10)*    | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Flaming Ammo. (10)*   | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Normal Ammo. (20)*    | 1 gp  | 100      |
| *Paralysis Ammo. (1)*  | 4 gp  | 1        |
| *Pierce Ammo. (10)*    | 2 gp  | 10       |
| *Poison Ammo. (1)*     | 4 gp  | 3        |
| *Recover lvl 1. (1*)   | 5 gp  | 1        |
| *Recover lvl 2. (1*)   | 7 gp  | 1        |
| *Sleep Ammo. (1)*      | 5 gp  | 1        |
| *Spread Ammo. (10)*    | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Sticky Ammo. (1)*     | 1 gp  | 2        |
| *Thunder Ammo. (10)*   | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Tranq Ammo. (1)*      | 50 gp | 20       |
| *Water Ammo. (10)*     | 3 gp  | 10       |

### Variant: Crafting Ammunition

You can craft ammunition to produce for your Bowgun. At the end of each long rest, you can create 20 rounds of ammunition. After each short rest, you can produce 5 rounds. It takes 3 rounds of ammunition when you craft any single round of ammunition that has a maximum capacity below 20.

Commit message:

Normal ammo amount now unlimited

docs/resources/weapons/light-bowgun.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 22
---

# Light Bowgun

*Simple Ranged Weapon*  
**Compatible Proficiency:** Light Crossbow

*The Light Bowgun is the smallest ranged weapon. It boasts the highest fire rate of the ranged weapons. It also specializes in supporting ammo, such as poison, paralysis and recovery, meaning it can reliably inflict a variety of status effects on the monster while still dealing damage.*

## All Rarities

**Rapid Fire.** Whenever you make an attack as part of the Attack action with the light bowgun, you make two attacks instead of one (*defaulting to normal ammo if you run out of any other type when attacking*).

**Overheat.** When you hit a creature with this weapon, the next attack you make with it only deals a maximum of 1d4 damage, in addition to any other effects from the ammo used for the attack. *This attack does not gain any extra damage from any other source, including ability score modifiers, bonus elemental damage, the sharpshooter feat, hunter's mark and spells like it, other spell effects, etc.* After making this attack, this property resets.

### Examples of Four Attacks per Turn

- **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)* | **Hit** *(1d4)* | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)* | **Hit** *(1d4)*
- **Miss** (0) | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)* | **Hit** *(1d4)* | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)*
- **Miss** (0) | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)* | **Miss** (0) | **Hit** *(1d4+extra damage)*

**Ammo.** Your ammo is stored in an ammo pouch that weighs 10 lbs. The pouch can hold a certain amount of each type of ammo as shown in the Vendor table below. All ammo deal normal weapon damage unless otherwise specified. Some of your ammo require your target to make a saving throw to resist the ammo’s effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:

**Ammo save DC** = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Dexterity modifier

**Loading.** As a bonus action you switch the ammo your bowgun is using with another. *This replaces the standard 5e loading property.*

## Nonmagical

*24 gp, 1d4 piercing, 5 lb., ammunition (range 80/320), loading, two-handed, special.*

- *Normal Ammo.* Deals normal weapon damage.
- *Tranq Ammo.* Acts as a *tranq bomb* with the bowgun's range and weapon proficiency.

## Uncommon

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Flaming Ammo.* Your attacks deal fire damage.
- *Pierce Ammo.* You gain a +1 bonus to damage rolls.
- *Poison Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. A poisoned target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
- *Recover lvl 1.* Instead of taking damage, a creature hit by this ammo regains 1d4 hit points.
- *Spread Ammo.* When you hit a creature with this ammo and it is within half your normal bowgun range, the damage dealt to the target is split evenly between it and each creature adjacent to it.
- *Thunder Ammo.* Your attacks deal thunder damage.
- *Water Ammo.* Your attacks deal acid damage.

## Rare

*You gain a +1 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You double the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Armor Ammo.* This ammo deals no damage, instead when you hit a creature with this ammo, that creature gains a +2 bonus to its AC for 1 minute. Hitting a creature with armor ammo again refreshes the duration.
- *Demon Ammo.* This ammo deals no damage, instead when you hit a creature with this ammo, that creature gains a +2 bonus to damage rolls for 1 minute. Hitting a creature with demon ammo again refreshes the duration.
- *Dragon Ammo.* Your attacks deal necrotic damage.
- *Paralysis Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Constitution saving throw or be incapacitated and have its movement speed reduced to 0 until the end of your next turn. If the creature fails the save by 5 or more, it is paralyzed instead until the end of your next turn.
- *Sleep Ammo.* This ammo deals no damage, if the target is below 50 hit points it falls unconscious for 1 minute, until it takes damage, or until someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake.
- *Sticky Ammo.* A creature hit by this ammo must succeed a Strength saving throw or be restrained for 1 minute, the creature can use their action to attempt to break free (Escape DC equal to your Ammo save DC).

## Very Rare

*You gain a +2 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You triple the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

**Additional Ammo Available.**

- *Recover lvl 2.* Instead of taking damage, a creature hit by this ammo regains 1d6 hit points.

## Legendary

*You gain a +3 bonus on attacks and damage rolls.*

**Capacity Increase.** You quadruple the base ammo capacity your ammo pouch can hold for all ammo.

## Ammo Vendor

An ammo vendor may be located in a general store, near a blacksmith, or perhaps they have their own shop. A store may have a large supply of ammunition, which will be up to your GM. Below you will find each type of ammo, the amount you can carry, how much they cost.

| Type                   | Cost  | Capacity |
| :------------------    | ----: | -------: |
| *Armor Ammo. (1)*      | 8 gp  | 1        |
| *Demon Ammo. (1)*      | 8 gp  | 1        |
| *Dragon Ammo. (10)*    | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Flaming Ammo. (10)*   | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Normal Ammo. (20)*    | 1 gp  | Unlimited* |
| *Paralysis Ammo. (1)*  | 4 gp  | 1        |
| *Pierce Ammo. (10)*    | 2 gp  | 10       |
| *Poison Ammo. (1)*     | 4 gp  | 3        |
| *Recover lvl 1. (1*)   | 5 gp  | 1        |
| *Recover lvl 2. (1*)   | 7 gp  | 1        |
| *Sleep Ammo. (1)*      | 5 gp  | 1        |
| *Spread Ammo. (10)*    | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Sticky Ammo. (1)*     | 1 gp  | 2        |
| *Thunder Ammo. (10)*   | 3 gp  | 10       |
| *Tranq Ammo. (1)*      | 50 gp | 20       |
| *Water Ammo. (10)*     | 3 gp  | 10       |

\*Up to the GM on how much you can hold.

### Variant: Crafting Ammunition

You can craft ammunition to produce for your Bowgun. At the end of each long rest, you can create 20 rounds of ammunition. After each short rest, you can produce 5 rounds. It takes 3 rounds of ammunition when you craft any single round of ammunition that has a maximum capacity below 20.
