docs/resources/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# How to Hunt a Monster

This is a brief summary of the [Guide to Monster Hunting](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-LCk9FgQaqaXBVmLeCeT) by [Amellwind](https://www.reddit.com/user/Amellwind/). 

This website is not a direct replacement for the original guide but a collection of information important to character creation and a quick reference guide of the changes I have made for use during the campaign.

The Resources section contains all mechanical and character creation-relevant changes. The Lore section contains all flavor changes made to races, backgrounds, etc., as well as additional backstory about the world and other background information.

## Getting Started

Character creation is done using the traditional system from the official [Player's Handbook](https://drive.google.com/open?id=10elvJ7bM_YyGaGt_xAIZFyr9aGkBPpEu&usp=drive_fs).

Worldbuilding-related character traits, such as race, background, and faction affiliation, are modified, but most individual mechanics remain unchanged. As with most 5e campaigns, magic is present in the world but it is uncommon for people, particularly hunters, to be exclusively spellcasters, and it is expected that you are also proficient in at least one hunter weapon.

Classes remain untouched (with a few exceptions), and while standard weapons exist, they are ineffective against the majority of creatures you will be facing. In their place, hunters utilize a set of specialized weapons, detailed further in this guide. The selection of your weapon is in some ways just as important as your class, as each enables you to unlock weapon-related feats and determine what materials you can use to augment your abilities. The extra stats provided by these weapon and armor changes allow you to properly take on the encounters in this campaign.

:::tip Homebrew
Any and all homebrew is welcome, as long as you run it by the GM first. Much of this campaign and the systems are a work in progress and will be even during the duration of the campaign. If you have something you want to try out or add, don't hesitate to bring it up.
:::

But we're getting ahead of ourselves, first let's introduce you to the new mechanics in Monster Hunter 5e.

Commit message:

The start of new beginnings, changing everything to vague space theme.

docs/resources/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# How to Hunt a Monster

This is a brief summary of the portions of [Guide to Monster Hunting](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-LCk9FgQaqaXBVmLeCeT) by [Amellwind](https://www.reddit.com/user/Amellwind/) used in the Preyline campaign.

This website is not a direct replacement for the original guide but a collection of information important to character creation and a quick reference guide of the changes I have made for use during the campaign.

## Getting Started

Character creation is done using the traditional system from the official [Player's Handbook](https://drive.google.com/open?id=10elvJ7bM_YyGaGt_xAIZFyr9aGkBPpEu&usp=drive_fs) (2024 PHB is also welcome).

Classes remain untouched (with a few exceptions), but on top of the normal equipment you would start with, you will also choose a Monster Hunter weapon. This weapon has its own set of stats and abilities, described in the Weapons section. Even spellcasters will be required to pick one weapon, regardless of whether you plan to use it mechanically or not.

This campaign is "Sci-fi" but this is not a limiting theme. Space stations exist as readily as magic-powered civilizations; whether your character views magic as a science or as a divine gift is up to you. Create the character you want to play, they will have a place in this world.

:::tip Homebrew
Any and all homebrew is welcome, as long as you run it by the GM first. Much of this campaign and the systems are a work in progress and will be even during the duration of the campaign. If you have something you want to try out or add, don't hesitate to bring it up.
:::

:::danger WARNING
You are free to make a spellcaster, but you will also be forced to pick a weapon as well for thematic purposes.
:::

But we're getting ahead of ourselves, first let's introduce you to the new mechanics in Monster Hunter 5e.
